<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@blaze-cardano/query](./query.md) &gt; [Blockfrost](./query.blockfrost.md)

## Blockfrost class

**Signature:**

```typescript
export declare class Blockfrost extends Provider 
```
**Extends:** [Provider](./query.provider.md)

## Constructors

<table><thead><tr><th>

Constructor


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[(constructor)({ network, projectId, withScriptRefCaching, })](./query.blockfrost._constructor_.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Constructs a new instance of the `Blockfrost` class


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Properties

<table><thead><tr><th>

Property


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Type


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[url](./query.blockfrost.url.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

string


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[withScriptRefCaching](./query.blockfrost.withscriptrefcaching.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

boolean


</td><td>


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Methods

<table><thead><tr><th>

Method


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[awaitTransactionConfirmation(txId, timeout)](./query.blockfrost.awaittransactionconfirmation.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

This method awaits confirmation of the transaction given as argument. The response is parsed into a boolean, which is then returned. If tx is not confirmed at first and no value for timeout is provided, then false is returned. If tx is not confirmed at first and a value for timeout (in ms) is given, then subsequent checks will be performed at a 20 second interval until timeout is reached.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[evaluateTransaction(tx, additionalUtxos)](./query.blockfrost.evaluatetransaction.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

This method evaluates how much execution units a transaction requires. Optionally, additional outputs can be provided. These are added to the evaluation without checking for their presence on-chain. This is useful when performing transaction chaining, where some outputs used as inputs to a transaction will have not yet been submitted to the network.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getParameters()](./query.blockfrost.getparameters.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

This method fetches the protocol parameters from the Blockfrost API. It constructs the query URL, sends a GET request with the appropriate headers, and processes the response. The response is parsed into a ProtocolParameters object, which is then returned. If the response is not in the expected format, an error is thrown.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getUnspentOutputByNFT(nft)](./query.blockfrost.getunspentoutputbynft.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

This method fetches the UTxO that holds a particular NFT given as argument. The response is parsed into a TransactionUnspentOutput type, which is then returned. If the response is not in the expected format, an error is thrown.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getUnspentOutputs(address, filter)](./query.blockfrost.getunspentoutputs.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

This method fetches the UTxOs under a given address. The response is parsed into a TransactionUnspentOutput\[\] type, which is then returned. If the response is not in the expected format, an error is thrown.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getUnspentOutputsWithAsset(address, unit)](./query.blockfrost.getunspentoutputswithasset.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

This method fetches the UTxOs under a given address that hold a particular asset. The response is parsed into a TransactionUnspentOutput\[\] type, which is then returned. If the response is not in the expected format, an error is thrown.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[headers()](./query.blockfrost.headers.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[postTransactionToChain(tx)](./query.blockfrost.posttransactiontochain.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

This method submits a transaction to the chain.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[resolveDatum(datumHash)](./query.blockfrost.resolvedatum.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

This method returns the datum for the datum hash given as argument. The response is parsed into a PlutusData type, which is then returned. If the response is not in the expected format, an error is thrown.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[resolveScriptRef(script, address)](./query.blockfrost.resolvescriptref.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[resolveUnspentOutputs(txIns)](./query.blockfrost.resolveunspentoutputs.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

This method resolves transaction outputs from a list of transaction inputs given as argument. The response is parsed into a TransactionUnspentOutput\[\] type, which is then returned. If the response is not in the expected format, an error is thrown.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

